# GRAD-521_SchrammWall_F_2021
Project: Seafood Security and Climate Change
Human-induce climate change is the greatest threat to food sources all over the world. Seafood species are no different; many species have redistributed from historic fishing regions toward the poles. This means many areas near the equator, such as developing countries and island nations, that depend on the ocean for a protein food source may not have seafood in the future (Monnier et al 2020). Current policies and laws do not focus on climate impacts as a concern for redistribution of seafood stocks. Adaptation is the next step and this needs to be an international effort. Though an environmental scientific concern, this is a multidisciplinary effort, including zoologists, climate scientists, GIS specialists, environmentalists, economists, politicians, fishermen, and other stakeholders. 
 For my studies, which are currently based on literature review, I am focusing on how seafood species are being redistributed due to climate impacts. I have not personally collected data for this study but have interpreted the data from multiple sources. What I have found consists of tracking climate over time and tracking fishing vessels to indicate where the species are located. Tracking can teach us about where the species are located and how to adapt when the species do shift regions. 

Types of Data: Most data for my topic are collected conceptually via GIS maps from the published literature and research from organizations such as Data Basin. This is mostly from ArcGIS and Google Earth programs with model output from observations of climate changes and fishing vessel tracking over time. Maps can be saved, via screenshots, and interpreted for later use. Maps are also found in published articles; these are saved and cited with the article. The bulk of data collected includes GIS maps, reports from both the political and scientific fields (as human subjects are not used for this topic, there is still a humanitarian concern), graphs, and text. Data sets from literature are cited and article are saved.

Estimated size of data: During this time, the project is based on literature review more so than collecting data. However, with open access of multiple GIS programs and data for climate and fishing vessel tracking data stored is on average 800 MB to 1 GB. The GIS programs require at least 1 GB on the hard drive and RAM at 2 GB to run successfully. 


URL of one dataset for project: For the dataset I chose, I picked the Fisheries Catch Model 2005-2050 (2010). The URL is https://sos.noaa.gov/datasets/fisheries-catch-model-2005-vs-2050/. While this dataset webpage does include Dataset Source, Dataset Developer, Dataset Visualization Developer, general information on the tool, and the physical tool itself, it does not contain the licensing and terms of use. For this information, use the URL https://sos.noaa.gov/copyright-information/. 

License ID: NOAA has determined that all “digital media” (refers to datasets and visualizations (which includes but is not limited to raw data, rendered data, label files, and pictures), video and motion picture recordings, photography, and audio recordings) is not copyrighted and can be used freely for educational and information purposes. NOAA does state that they want to be acknowledged when using the dataset. If datasets are protected by copyright, as defined by the originator, then permission must be found by the user. Third party use or commercial use of datasets from NOAA are protected by 17 U.S.C. 403 and notice must be provided to NOAA before datasets can be used. 
For the dataset I have mentioned, citing the authors is acceptable but the dataset can be used freely as per NOAA. The dataset used for Fishing Catch Model is under public domain unless it is used by a third party or commercial use.  

Terms of use of dataset provided: Terms of use of a dataset are legal agreements and arrangement between the author (or funder/organization/university/etc.) of the data or research and the person(s) who want to use the data or research. An agreement must be made between both parties before the data or research can be used. It is only after the agreement is made can the data be used or reused. Data can’t be used or reused if permission is not granted or an agreement has not been approved. Regarding derivative data, legal rights also need to be given. Though derivative data is data that is the creation of new data from related sources for a new purpose, those related sources may be subject to copyright laws and terms of use need to be set if permission is needed (Ward 2020). Citation of the original data to the derivative data may not be enough protection from copyright laws.  
